Docs: Azure Monitor data source changes for 7.1 (#26096)
grafana/grafana: docs/sources/features/datasources/azuremonitor.md

- **[Azure Monitor]({{< relref "#querying-the-azure-monitor-service" >}})** is the platform service that provides a single source for monitoring Azure resources.
- **[Application Insights]({{< relref "#querying-the-application-insights-service" >}})** is an extensible Application Performance Management (APM) service for web developers on multiple platforms and can be used to monitor your live web application - it will automatically detect performance anomalies.
- **[Azure Log Analytics]({{< relref "#querying-the-azure-log-analytics-service" >}})** (or Azure Logs) gives you access to log data collected by Azure Monitor.
- **[Application Insights Analytics]({{< relref "#querying-the-application-insights-analytics-service" >}})** allows you to query [Application Insights data](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/azure-monitor/app/analytics) using the same query language used for Azure Log Analytics.

> ## Adding the data source

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Add the data source
```

Reviewer: Per the [Documentation style guide](https://github.com/grafana/grafana/tree/master/contribute/style-guides), avoid gerunds in headings. (I know this is old, but I try to update things as we touch them.)

- **[Azure Monitor]({{< relref "#querying-the-azure-monitor-service" >}})** is the platform service that provides a single source for monitoring Azure resources.
- **[Application Insights]({{< relref "#querying-the-application-insights-service" >}})** is an extensible Application Performance Management (APM) service for web developers on multiple platforms and can be used to monitor your live web application - it will automatically detect performance anomalies.
- **[Azure Log Analytics]({{< relref "#querying-the-azure-log-analytics-service" >}})** (or Azure Logs) gives you access to log data collected by Azure Monitor.

> - **[Application Insights Analytics]({{< relref "#querying-the-application-insights-analytics-service" >}})** allows you to query [Application Insights data](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/azure-monitor/app/analytics) using the same query language used for Azure Log Analytics.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **[Application Insights Analytics]({{< relref "#query-the-application-insights-analytics-service" >}})** allows you to query [Application Insights data](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/azure-monitor/app/analytics) using the same query language used for Azure Log Analytics.
```

- `Azure Monitor`
- `Application Insights`
- `Azure Log Analytics`
- `Insights Analytics`

> The query editor will change depending on which one you pick. Azure Monitor is the default.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The query editor changes depending on which one you pick. Azure Monitor is the default.
```

> As of 7.1+, Insights Analytics was added and replaces the former edit mode from within Application Insights.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Starting in Grafana 7.1, Insights Analytics replaced the former edit mode from within Application Insights.
```

> ## Querying the Azure Monitor service

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Query the Azure Monitor service
```

{{< docs-imagebox img="/img/docs/v60/azuremonitor-service-query-editor.png" class="docs-image--no-shadow" caption="Azure Monitor Query Editor" >}}

> As of 7.1, the query editor will let you query multiple dimensions for metrics that support them. Metrics that support multiple dimensions are those listed in the [Azure Monitor supported Metrics List](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/azure-monitor/platform/metrics-supported) that have one or more values listed in the "Dimension" column for the metric.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
As of Grafana 7.1, the query editor allows you to query multiple dimensions for metrics that support them. Metrics that support multiple dimensions are those listed in the [Azure Monitor supported Metrics List](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/azure-monitor/platform/metrics-supported) that have one or more values listed in the "Dimension" column for the metric.
```

> ### Formatting legend keys with aliases for Azure Monitor

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Format legend keys with aliases for Azure Monitor
```

The default legend formatting for the Azure Monitor API is:

`metricName{dimensionName=dimensionValue,dimensionTwoName=DimensionTwoValue}`

> Note: Before 7.1+, the formatting used to include the resource name in the default: `resourceName{dimensionName=dimensionValue}.metricName`. As of 7.1+ the resource name as been removed from the default legend.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> **Note:** Before Grafana 7.1, the formatting included the resource name in the default: `resourceName{dimensionName=dimensionValue}.metricName`. As of Grafana 7.1, the resource name has been removed from the default legend.
```

> These can be quite long, but this formatting can be changed by using aliases. In the Legend Format field, the aliases which are defined below can be combined any way you want.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
These can be quite long, but this formatting can be changed by using aliases. In the **Legend Format** field, you can combine the aliases defined below any way you want.
```

> Azure Monitor Examples:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Azure Monitor examples:
```

- `Blob Type: {{ blobtype }}`
- `{{ resourcegroup }} - {{ resourcename }}`

### Alias patterns for Azure Monitor

- `{{ resourcegroup }}` = replaced with the value of the Resource Group
- `{{ namespace }}` = replaced with the value of the Namespace (e.g. Microsoft.Compute/virtualMachines)
- `{{ resourcename }}` = replaced with the value of the Resource Name
- `{{ metric }}` = replaced with metric name (e.g. Percentage CPU)
- `{{ dimensionname }}` = *Legacy as of 7.1+ (for backwards compatibility)* replaced with the first dimension's key/label (as sorted by the key/label) (e.g. blobtype)
- `{{ dimensionvalue }}` = *Legacy as of 7.1+ (for backwards compatibility)* replaced with first dimension's value (as sorted by the key/label) (e.g. BlockBlob)
- `{{ arbitraryDim }}` = *Available in 7.1+* replaced with the value of the corresponding dimension. (e.g. `{{ blobtype }}` becomes BlockBlob)

> ### Templating with variables for Azure Monitor

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Create template variables for Azure Monitor
```

> ## Querying the Application Insights Service

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Query the Application Insights Service
```

{{< docs-imagebox img="/img/docs/azuremonitor/insights_metrics_multi-dim.png" class="docs-image--no-shadow" caption="Application Insights Query Editor" >}}

> As of 7.1+, more than one group by dimension may be selected.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
As of Grafana 7.1, you can select more than one group by dimension.
```

### Formatting legend keys with aliases for Application Insights

The default legend formatting is:

`metricName{dimensionName=dimensionValue,dimensionTwoName=DimensionTwoValue}`

In the Legend Format field, the aliases which are defined below can be combined any way you want.

> Application Insights Examples:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Application Insights examples:
```

> Queries are written in the new [Azure Log Analytics (or KustoDB) Query Language](https://docs.loganalytics.io/index). A Log Analytics Query can be formatted as Time Series data or as Table data.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Queries are written in the new [Azure Log Analytics (or KustoDB) Query Language](https://docs.loganalytics.io/index). A Log Analytics query can be formatted as time series data or as table data.
```

> If your credentials give you access to multiple subscriptions then choose the appropriate subscription first before entering queries.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If your credentials give you access to multiple subscriptions, then choose the appropriate subscription before entering queries.
```

### Time series queries

> Time Series queries are for the Graph Panel (and other panels like the Single Stat panel) and must contain at least a datetime column and a numeric value column. The result must also be sorted in ascending order by the datetime column.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Time series queries are for the Graph panel and other panels like the SingleStat panel. Each query must contain at least a datetime column and a numeric value column. The result must also be sorted in ascending order by the datetime column.
```

Here is an example query that returns the aggregated count grouped by hour:

```kusto
Perf
| where $__timeFilter(TimeGenerated)
| summarize count() by bin(TimeGenerated, 1h)
| order by TimeGenerated asc
```

> A query may also additionally have one or more non-numeric/non-datetime columns, and those columns will be considered dimensions and become labels in the response. For example, a query that returns the aggregated count grouped by hour, Computer, and the CounterName:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A query can also have one or more non-numeric/non-datetime columns, and those columns are considered dimensions and become labels in the response. For example, a query that returns the aggregated count grouped by hour, Computer, and the CounterName:
```

```kusto
Perf
| where $__timeFilter(TimeGenerated)
| summarize count() by bin(TimeGenerated, 1h), Computer, CounterName
| order by TimeGenerated asc
```

> Finally, additional number value columns may also be selected (with, or without multiple dimensions). For example getting a count and average value by hour, Computer, CounterName, and InstanceName:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can also select additional number value columns (with, or without multiple dimensions). For example, getting a count and average value by hour, Computer, CounterName, and InstanceName:
```

```kusto
Perf
| where $__timeFilter(TimeGenerated)
| summarize Samples=count(), AvgValue=avg(CounterValue)
    by bin(TimeGenerated, $__interval), Computer, CounterName, InstanceName
| order by TimeGenerated asc
```

{{< docs-imagebox img="/img/docs/azuremonitor/logs_multi-value_multi-dim.png" class="docs-image--no-shadow" caption="Azure Logs query with multiple values and multiple dimensions" >}}

### Table queries

> Table queries are mainly used in the Table panel and row a list of columns and rows. This example query returns rows with the 6 specified columns:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Table queries are mainly used in the Table panel and show a list of columns and rows. This example query returns rows with the six specified columns:
```

Grafana alerting is supported for Application Insights. This is not Azure Alerts support. Read more about how alerting in Grafana works in [Alerting rules]({{< relref "../../alerting/alerts-overview.md" >}}).

> ## Querying the Application Insights Analytics service

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Query the Application Insights Analytics service
```

Reviewer: Here, service is lowercase. In previous headings, "Service" is uppercase. Please make consistent. If "service" is part of the proper name, then uppercase is appropriate. If "service" is generic, not part of the official name, then lowercase is appropriate.

> If you change the service type to "Insights Analytics", a similar editor to the Log Analytics service is available. This service also uses the Kusto language so the instructions for querying data are identical to [querying the log analytics service]({{< relref "#querying-the-azure-log-analytics-service" >}}), except that you query Application Insights Analytics data instead.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you change the service type to **Insights Analytics**, then a similar editor to the Log Analytics service is available. This service also uses the Kusto language, so the instructions for querying data are identical to [querying the log analytics service]({{< relref "#querying-the-azure-log-analytics-service" >}}), except that you query Application Insights Analytics data instead.
```
